WHAT IS PYTHON?
python

Thousands of students start their coding journey right here with Python. We think it's the best programming language to get started with. Python is famous for being a simple language that's easy to read and write.

However, just because it's simple that doesn't mean it's not useful! Python is an extremely popular language in the industry, and is well-known for:

Backend web servers
DevOps and cloud engineering
Machine learning
Scripting and automation
etc...
On the other hand, it's not particularly well-known for front-end work. While it's possible to do so, Python isn't typically used to build visual user interfaces.


WHAT IS "CODE"?
Code is just a series of instructions that computers can follow. Computers obey each instruction, one after another.

Programs can be comprised of many instructions. Like many. Like millions.

Addition is one of the most common instructions in coding.

PRINTING NUMBERS
print() can print text using quotes:

print("some text here")
Copy icon
but it can also print numbers without quotes:

print(1)
Copy icon
and you can do math directly inside the parentheses:

print(1 + 2)

MULTIPLE INSTRUCTIONS
Code runs in order, starting at the top of the program. For example:

print("this prints first")
print("this prints second")
print("this prints last")
Copy icon
Each print() instruction prints on a new line.
SYNTAX ERRORS
Syntax is jargon for "valid code that the computer can understand". For example, the following code is invalid syntax:

prnt("hello world")
Copy icon
prnt() is not a valid function because "print" is spelled incorrectly. As a result, an error will be thrown and the code won't execute.

VARIABLES
Variables are how we store data in our program. So far we've been directly printing data by passing it directly into the print() function.

Now we are going to learn to save the data in variables so we can use and change it before we need to print it.

A variable is a name that we define that will point to some data. For example, I could define a new variable called my_height and set its value to 100. I could also define a variable called my_name and set it equal to "Lane".

CREATING VARIABLES
To create a new variable in Python we use the following syntax:

my_new_variable_two = 2
this_can_be_called_anything = 3

COMMENTS
Comments don't run like code, they are ignored by the computer. Comments are useful for adding reminders or explaining what a piece of code does in plain English.

SINGLE LINE COMMENT
# speed is a variable describing how fast your player moves
speed = 2
Copy icon
MULTI-LINE COMMENTS (AKA DOCSTRINGS)
You can use triple quotes to start and end multi-line comments as well:

"""
    the code found below
    will print 'Hello, World!' to the console
"""
print('Hello, World!')
Copy icon
This is useful if you don't want to add the # to the start of each line when writing paragraphs of comments.
